Anarchism is a political philosophy that advocates self-governed societies based on voluntary institutions.
These are often described as stateless societies, although several authors have defined them more specifically as institutions based on non-hierarchical or free associations.
Anarchism holds the state to be undesirable, unnecessary and harmful.While opposition to the state is central, anarchism specifically entails opposing authority or hierarchical organisation in the conduct of all human relations.
Anarchism is usually considered a far-left ideology and much of anarchist economics and anarchist legal philosophy reflects anti-authoritarian interpretations of communism, collectivism, syndicalism, mutualism, or participatory economics.Anarchism does not offer a fixed body of doctrine from a single particular world view, instead fluxing and flowing as a philosophy.
Many types and traditions of anarchism exist, not all of which are mutually exclusive.
Anarchist schools of thought can differ fundamentally, supporting anything from extreme individualism to complete collectivism.
Strains of anarchism have often been divided into the categories of social and individualist anarchism or similar dual classifications.The word "anarchism" is composed from the word "anarchy" and the suffix -ism, themselves derived respectively from the Greek , i.e. "anarchy" (from , "anarchos", meaning "one without rulers"; from the privative prefix ἀν- ("an-", i.e. "without") and , "archos", i.e. "leader", "ruler"; (cf. "archon" or , "arkhē", i.e. "authority", "sovereignty", "realm", "magistracy")) and the suffix or ("-ismos", "-isma", from the verbal infinitive suffix , "-izein").

The first known use of this word was in 1539.
Various factions within the French Revolution labelled opponents as anarchists (as Maximilien Robespierre did the Hébertists) although few shared many views of later anarchists.
There would be many revolutionaries of the early nineteenth century who contributed to the anarchist doctrines of the next generation, such as William Godwin and Wilhelm Weitling, but they did not use the word "anarchist" or "anarchism" in describing themselves or their beliefs.The first political philosopher to call himself an anarchist was Pierre-Joseph Proudhon, marking the formal birth of anarchism in the mid-nineteenth century.
